---
title: SEO
published: Jul 6, 2013
layout: blog.jade
---

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/vzvXlmtt2-Q?wmode=opaque" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

Search engine optimization or SEO is the process of making your site more relevant to search engines like Google or Microsoft’s Bing. The goal is for your web site to appear as soon as possible in the search results to direct more people to your website. SEO can be broken down into two categories, organic SEO and inorganic SEO.

## Organic SEO

Organic SEO is called organic because it is the natural SEO that is inherent to all websites. Organic SEO is made up of three elements, content, the website itself and the website reputation.

When a search engine looks at your website, it is trying to understand what it is about. The content of your site is the biggest determinant of this understanding. Having relevant, high quality content allows the search engine to effectively map what your website says, to what people are looking for. Having good content is critical because it has a direct and indirect effect on your ranking. If you have content that is clear and concise, a search engine will be able to understand your site well, providing a direct benefit. As an example of an indirect benefit, if you and your competitor both appear in a search result and a user only needs to go to your website, search engines assume that the user found the information they were looking for and as such, your website increase in rank because a user has indicated that your site was relevant.

The technical elements of your site greatly affect your search ranking. For example, having a website that loads slow, uses images instead of text or uses code which is not up to standards, are all technical issues which are penalized by search engines.

Reputation is received usually by having a long standing history of ranking well and by being linked to from many other websites. Maintaining a high ranking with a search engine means that you are doing many other things right and provides positive feed back for a search engine Having many other websites linking to your websites shows that many other people find your site relevant. This helps build a network of trust where the reputation of others can positively affect your reputation.

When your site is technically sound, has good content, and has a good reputation you will naturally rise in the ranks on search engines.

## Inorganic SEO

Inorganic SEO is usually generated by relying on third party paid services. Examples of this include purchased advertisements and paid articles on other sites. One general characteristics of inorganic SEO is that it is not permanent. Once an ad expires, whatever benefit you derived from it is gone.

One inorganic SEO practice I don’t recommend is modifying the content of your site just for search engines. This is something that should never be done. Focusing solely on your keywords may be beneficial for search engines and allow you to rank higher, this will not be beneficial for users. This will typically make the site harder to ready and comprehend which is clearly not a good thing. Search engines are constantly improving their ability to detect content that is tailored for robots instead of users and to correctly compensate for this content.

## Conclusion

I highly recommend focusing on organic SEO as your primary SEO tool. It is an investment into the success of your website which will continue to have value. It also carries the benefit of improving the users experience.
